[IMP] inventory: carrier label and export doc (#9588)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/advanced_operations_shipping/print_on_validation.rst

- For laser printers, set the :guilabel:`Report Type` to :guilabel:`PDF`.
- For Zebra printers, set the :guilabel:`Report Type` to :guilabel:`Text`.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/label-type:

Shipping carrier label type
---------------------------

Next, complete the setup for the :doc:`third-party shipping connector
<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`. After that, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->
Configuration --> Shipping Methods`, and select the desired shipping method.

On the shipping method configuration form, in the :guilabel:`[carrier name] Configuration` tab,
ensure the :guilabel:`Label Format` matches the :ref:`report type assigned earlier
<inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`:

- For laser printers, set the :guilabel:`Label Format` to :guilabel:`PDF`.
- For Zebra printers, set the :guilabel:`Label Format` to :guilabel:`ZPL2`.

.. image:: print_on_validation/label-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the *Label Type* field on FedEx's shipping method configuration page.

Example carrier label
---------------------

After validating the operation, the carrier label is generated in the chatter, and printed using the
IoT-connected printer.

> .. seealso::
>    :doc:`Print carrier labels <labels>`
> 
> .. image:: print_on_validation/carrier-label.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Show carrier label generated in the chatter.
> 
> .. spoiler:: Example carrier label
> 
>      .. figure:: print_on_validation/fedex-carrier-label.png
>         :align: center
>         :alt: Show an example carrier label for FedEx.
> 
>         Carrier label for FedEx, containing the recipient address, tracking number, barcode, and
>         other shipping information.

Reviewer: Since there are a large number of images in this document, I would like to minimize adding any more that we could possibly do without. I think the generated labels are very valuable to have included, but I think the `carrier-label.png` image can be removed
```suggestion
.. spoiler:: Example carrier label

     .. figure:: print_on_validation/fedex-carrier-label.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Show an example carrier label for FedEx.

        Carrier label for FedEx, containing the recipient address, tracking number, barcode, and
        other shipping information.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Print carrier labels <labels>`
```

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/export-doc:

Export document
===============

An *export document*, required by customs to ship packages from one country to another, can be
automatically printed in Odoo by following these steps:

#. Tick the :guilabel:`Export Documents` checkbox in the :ref:`operation type settings
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/print_setup>`.
#. :doc:`Connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` to Odoo's *IoT* app.
#. Assign the export document to the printer.

Assign printer
--------------

Similar to the :ref:`printer assignment instructions for carrier labels
<inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`, after connecting a compatible printer to the Odoo
*IoT* app, go to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices`, and select the desired printer.

In the printer configuration form, go to the :guilabel:`Printer Reports` tab, and click
:guilabel:`Add a line`. In the :guilabel:`Add: Reports` pop-up window that appears, add the
:guilabel:`Shipping Documents` report to assign the export document to the printer.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line
```suggestion
```

To print this form automatically, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->
Operation Types`, and select the desired operation type. Then, go to the :guilabel:`Hardware` tab,
and tick the :guilabel:`Package Contents` checkbox.

.. important::
   If the option is not available, enable the :doc:`Packages
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/package>` feature, by going to
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, ticking the :guilabel:`Packages`
   checkbox, and clicking :guilabel:`Save`.

After enabling the feature in the :guilabel:`Hardware` tab, validating the operation prints a PDF of
the package contents.

.. spoiler:: Example package content PDF

   .. figure:: print_on_validation/package-content.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Package contents form showing the package contents, barcode, and pack date.

      Package contents showing the package contents, barcode, and pack date.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/package-label:

Package label
=============

A *package label* that shows the package's barcode and pack date can be configured to print upon
clicking the *Put in Pack* button.

.. important::

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line
```suggestion
```

   The :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is available **only** when the :doc:`Packages
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/package>` feature is enabled in
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`.

   After it is enabled, the :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is available on all inventory operations
   (e.g. receipt, pickings, internal transfers, delivery orders, etc.).

> .. image:: print_on_validation/put-in-pack.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Example delivery order, highlighting the *Put in Pack* button.
> 

Reviewer: Suggesting to remove this image too, to cut down on the number of image :)
```suggestion
```

- :guilabel:`ZPL Labels - One per unit`: prints labels with the quantity of items in :abbr:`ZPL
  (Zebra Programming Language)`, containing the product name, lot/serial number, and barcode.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/carrier-labels:

Carrier labels
==============

> Automatically print a *carrier label* with recipient address, tracking number, and carrier details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To automatically print a *carrier label* with the recipient address, tracking number, and carrier details
```

for specific third-party shipping carriers, complete the following setup:

> #. tick the :guilabel:`Carrier Labels` checkbox in the :ref:`operation type settings
>    <inventory/shipping_receiving/print_setup>`.
> #. :doc:`connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` to Odoo's *IoT* app.
> #. :ref:`assign the carrier label to the printer <inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`.
> #. configure the shipping method's :ref:`label type <inventory/shipping_receiving/label-type>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Carrier Labels` checkbox in the :ref:`operation type settings
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/print_setup>`.
#. :doc:`Connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` to Odoo's *IoT* app.
#. :ref:`Assign the carrier label to the printer <inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`.
#. Configure the shipping method's :ref:`label type <inventory/shipping_receiving/label-type>`.
```

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer:

Assign printer
--------------

Refer to the :doc:`Connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` documentation for
details on connecting a printer to Odoo's *IoT* app. After completing that, begin assigning the

> carrier label to the printer by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices` and select the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
carrier label to the printer by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices` and selecting the
```

> details on connecting a printer to Odoo's *IoT* app. After completing that, begin assigning the
> carrier label to the printer by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices` and selecting the
> desired printer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
details on connecting a printer to Odoo's *IoT* app. Upon completion, assign the
carrier label to the printer, by navigating to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices`, and selecting the
desired printer.
```

.. image:: print_on_validation/select-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show a list of IoT devices.

In the printer configuration form, go to the :guilabel:`Printer Reports` tab to configure the types
of documents the printer automatically prints. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` to open the

> :guilabel:`Add: Reports` pop-up window. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, type `Shipping` and select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Add: Reports` pop-up window. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, type `Shipping`, and select
```

:guilabel:`Shipping Labels`.

.. note::

>    :guilabel:`Shipping Documents` is for :ref:`export documents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Shipping Documents` report is for :ref:`export documents
```

   <inventory/shipping_receiving/export-doc>`.

.. image:: print_on_validation/printer-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show carrier label report added to the *Printer Reports*.

After adding the :guilabel:`Shipping Labels` report in the :guilabel:`Printer Reports` tab, ensure
the :guilabel:`Report Type` matches the IoT-connected printer's type.

- For laser printers, set the :guilabel:`Report Type` to :guilabel:`PDF`.

> - For Zebra printers set the :guilabel:`Report Type` to :guilabel:`Text`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For Zebra printers, set the :guilabel:`Report Type` to :guilabel:`Text`.
```

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/label-type:

Shipping carrier label type
---------------------------

> Next, complete the setup for the :doc:`third party shipping connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, complete the setup for the :doc:`third-party shipping connector
```

<../setup_configuration/third_party_shipper>`. After that, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->

> Configuration --> Shipping Methods` and select the desired shipping method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuration --> Shipping Methods`, and select the desired shipping method.
```

On the shipping method configuration form, in the :guilabel:`[carrier name] Configuration` tab,
ensure the :guilabel:`Label Format` matches the :ref:`report type assigned earlier
<inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`:

- For laser printers, set the :guilabel:`Label Format` to :guilabel:`PDF`.

> - For Zebra printers set the :guilabel:`Label Format` to :guilabel:`ZPL2`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For Zebra printers, set the :guilabel:`Label Format` to :guilabel:`ZPL2`.
```

.. image:: print_on_validation/label-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show the *Label Type* field on FedEx's shipping method configuration page.

Example carrier label
---------------------

> After validating the delivery, the carrier label is generated in the chatter and printed using the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After validating the delivery, the carrier label is generated in the chatter, and printed using the
```

Reviewer 3: do you think it would be beneficial to add "...in the chatter of the delivery order,..." or do you think that is fairly self-explanatory? Totally not required, just a suggestion of something to consider during your revisions. 👍

IoT-connected printer.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Print carrier labels <labels>`

.. image:: print_on_validation/carrier-label.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show carrier label generated in the chatter.

.. spoiler:: Example carrier label

     .. figure:: print_on_validation/fedex-carrier-label.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Show an example carrier label for FedEx.

>         Carrier label for FedEx, containing the recipient address, tracking number and barcode, and
>         other shipping information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Carrier label for FedEx, containing the recipient address, tracking number, barcode, and
        other shipping information.
```

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/export-doc:

Export document
===============

> An *export document* required by customs to ship packages from one country to another can be
> automatically printed in Odoo by following these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An *export document*, required by customs to ship packages from one country to another, can be
automatically printed in Odoo by following these steps:
```

> #. tick the :guilabel:`Export Documents` checkbox in the :ref:`operation type settings
>    <inventory/shipping_receiving/print_setup>`.
> #. :doc:`connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` to Odoo's *IoT* app.
> #. assign the export document to the printer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Export Documents` checkbox in the :ref:`operation type settings
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/print_setup>`.
#. :doc:`Connect a printer <../../../../general/iot/devices/printer>` to Odoo's *IoT* app.
#. Assign the export document to the printer.
```

Assign printer
--------------

Similar to the :ref:`printer assignment instructions for carrier labels
<inventory/shipping_receiving/assign-printer>`, after connecting a compatible printer to the Odoo

> *IoT* app, go to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices` and select the desired printer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*IoT* app, go to :menuselection:`IoT app --> Devices`, and select the desired printer.
```

> In the printer configuration form, go to the :guilabel:`Printer Reports` tab and click

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the printer configuration form, go to the :guilabel:`Printer Reports` tab, and click
```

:guilabel:`Add a line`. In the :guilabel:`Add: Reports` pop-up window, add the :guilabel:`Shipping

> Documents` report to assigns the export document to the printer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Documents` report to assign the export document to the printer.
```

.. spoiler:: Example export document

   .. figure:: print_on_validation/export-doc.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Export document for a shipment from the USA to Belgium.

      Export document for a shipment from the USA to Belgium.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/package-content:

Package content
===============

A *package content* PDF includes the package's barcode, packed date, in addtion to a list of
contained products and quantities.

To print this form automatically, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->

> Operation Types` and select the desired operation type. Then, go to the :guilabel:`Hardware` tab and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Operation Types`, and select the desired operation type. Then, go to the :guilabel:`Hardware` tab, and
```

tick the :guilabel:`Package Contents` checkbox.

.. important::

   If the option is not available, enable the :doc:`Packages

>    <../../product_management/product_tracking/package>` feature by going to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/package>` feature, by going to
```

>    :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings` and ticking the
>    :guilabel:`Packages` checkbox.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, ticking the
   :guilabel:`Packages` checkbox, and clicking :guilabel:`Save`.
```

After enabling the feature in the :guilabel:`Hardware` tab, validating the operation prints a PDF of
the package contents.

.. spoiler:: Example package content PDF

   .. figure:: print_on_validation/package-content.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Package contents form showing the package contents, barcode, and pack date.

      Package contents showing the package contents, barcode, and pack date.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/package-label:

Package label
=============

A *package label* that shows the package's barcode and pack date can be configured to print upon
clicking the *Put in Pack* button.

.. important::

>    The :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is available only when the :doc:`Packages

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is available **only** when the :doc:`Packages
```

   <../../product_management/product_tracking/package>` feature is enabled in
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`.

   After it is enabled, the :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is available on all inventory operations

>    (e.g. receipt, pickings, internal transfers, delivery orders).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   (e.g. receipt, pickings, internal transfers, delivery orders, etc.).
```

.. image:: print_on_validation/put-in-pack.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example delivery order, highlighting the *Put in Pack* button.

> To automatically print the package label when clicking the :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To automatically print the package label when the :guilabel:`Put in Pack` button is
```
